Imagine that you were asked by your boss, or maybe you're such a smart developer and so motivated that
you want to create a few classes that would present present a button.
So you would go ahead and create button glass with all the properties and all of the functions.
And then you decided that, OK, if I create a class called button, I may also want to create another
class that is another version of a button.
In this case, an icon button, which in this case will be a button, will have all the properties of
a button, but will also have its own property, which is being able to add an icon attached to that
button.
And then he decided, OK, maybe I also will need to have a text to view.
But since this takes view, it's a simple text view, meaning we're just going to have a text showing
on the screen.
I will make it inherit from I can button mainly because I want to make sure to inherit or override the
functionality of the click event.
So that's that's OK.
That's very possible.
But then time goes by and then your boss or yourself who have graduated from building small applications.
Now you want to create a game and then you decide to create another structure, right?
Tree like structure.
So you create a character in a game and this character is perhaps inheriting from game actor.
So it doesn't really matter.
But now you start thinking, OK, I have this whole system of classes that are doing something different.
However, there is one thing that they all do, which is there is this one click event that needs to
be attached to each one of these classes.
So you may start thinking, I wonder if there's a structure in cartilage that will help me think through
this process where I do have this one event that is common to all of these classes independent of the
types of classes, because in this case, we have buttons inheriting to the left here.
And then we have this character actor here that is from a game class.
And that's what it's inheriting from, right?
So we start thinking, is there a way I could create an entity that can stand on its own?
All this entity will do is to have specific behaviors that can be used in other classes.
Yes, we have such structure.
It's called interface or interfaces in codling.
So in this case here, when we have an interface, we could say, OK, we understand that a button icon,
button, text, view, character, all of these classes have one thing that they want to implement,
which is a click event.
So we would create, in this case, an interface called click event.
All this will do, it will have specified event in this case, one click event right or function or
a property.
It will have those behaviors encapsulated in one place so that anybody else by that anybody, I mean
any other guys, they can actually implement this class and they will be able to override or will need
to implement the actual function.
What I mean by that is as follows so character now could implement click event.
So could text view I can button.
And the button itself, if we had some strange class somewhere else that does something totally different,
it could potentially also implement this interface.
So in a nutshell, an interface specifies what a class can implement regardless of inheritance status.
Now I added that just to show you that it doesn't matter if we're talking about buttons to the left
or we're talking about some sort of some different characters from a different game actor or from a
different system or different classes that we happen to be using as well.
So this is a very important concept in programming in general, going back to our diagram here.
What we would do with our click event here interface, we would create a functioning site called on
Click.
This function will be implemented at the class level.
What that means is that on click function would not have a body.
Right.
Because the idea is not that the click event will implement or do something.
All this will do the click event.
It would be as an interface.
It would have the signature, if you will, of that function so that any class that would implement
this click event.
They would have to actually also implement their own click method or function on their own.
And this creates a lot of flexibility because not only can a button implement its own own, click an
icon Biden can do can implement its own on click as well, like customize itself a text view, and so
would a character or a robot or whatever it is.
So that's what an interface is, and that's the reason why having an interface is very powerful.
OK, let's go ahead and take a look in code.